<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Bias"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Bias</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Gal Harpaz</b>, <i>The Open University of Israel</i><br><a href="mailto:doctorharpaz@gmail.com" target="blank">doctorharpaz@gmail.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Franziska Marquart</b>, <i>University of Copenhagen, Denmark</i><br><a href="mailto:fm@hum.ku.dk" target="blank">fm@hum.ku.dk</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br><br><br>Bias refers to a disproportionate inclination for or against an idea, person, thing, or group, often in a closed-minded, prejudicial, or unfair manner. Biases can be either innate or learned, and they influence how individuals think, feel, and behave toward others. They shape how people process, interpret, and recall information, and frequently reinforce existing beliefs rather than encouraging objective reasoning or openness to alternative perspectives.<br><br>A common example is confirmation bias, where individuals selectively seek out or interpret information in ways that support their pre-existing beliefs. Another related phenomenon is the narrative fallacy, in which people construct coherent but misleading stories from limited or incomplete information, often distorting reality in the process. These tendencies can lead to oversimplified or inaccurate understandings of complex issues.  <br><br>Biases also manifest in the form of motivated reasoning or partisan bias, where new information is unconsciously filtered to align with one’s prior political or ideological views. These psychological patterns are closely associated with cognitive heuristics—mental shortcuts that facilitate quick decision-making, particularly under conditions of time pressure or cognitive overload. While heuristics can be efficient, they may also contribute to flawed judgements and systematic misperceptions.<br><br>Importantly, biased individuals are not necessarily trying to mislead. Rather, they may present a skewed interpretation of reality that is shaped by subjective experiences and internalised cognitive patterns. Recognising these influences is essential for understanding how people form beliefs and make decisions. Therefore, a deeper understanding of the cognitive mechanisms underlying bias can enhance individuals’ capacity for reflective information processing. This, in turn, supports more deliberate and informed decision-making across a range of social and political contexts.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt">s</font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt">ocial psychology, heuristics, motivated reasoning</font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./media-bias.html">Media Bias</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Menashe, D., &amp; Shamash, M. E. (2006). The narrative fallacy. International Commentary on Evidence, 3(1). <a href="https://doi.org/10.2202/1554-4567.1034" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.2202/1554-4567.1034</a><br>Nickerson, R. S. (1998). Confirmation bias: A ubiquitous phenomenon in many guises. Review of General Psychology, 2(2), 175-220. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1037/1089-2680.2.2.175" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1037/1089-2680.2.2.175</a><br>Steinbock, B. (1978). Speciesism and the Idea of Equality. Philosophy, 53(204), 247-256. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1017/S0031819100016582‏" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1017/S0031819100016582‏</a><br>Taber, C. S., &amp; Lodge, M. (2006). Motivated skepticism in the evaluation of political beliefs. American Journal of Political Science, 50(3), 755-769. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-5907.2006.00214.x" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-5907.2006.00214.x</a><br>Wallace, L. E., Wegener, D. T., &amp; Petty, R. E. (2020). When sources honestly provide their biased opinion: Bias as a distinct source perception with independent effects on credibility and persuasion. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 46(3), 439-453. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1177/01461672198586" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1177/01461672198586</a></font></p>
</body>