<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Computational Linguistics"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Computational Linguistics</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Chaya Liebeskind</b>, <i>Jerusalem College of Technology, Israel</i><br><a href="mailto:liebchaya@gmail.com" target="blank">liebchaya@gmail.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Barbara Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk</b>, <i>University of Applied Sciences in Konin, Poland</i><br><a href="mailto:barbara.lewandowska-tomaszczyk@konin.edu.pl" target="blank">barbara.lewandowska-tomaszczyk@konin.edu.pl</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br><br><br>Computational linguistics is a multidisciplinary field that integrates concepts from linguistics and computer science to create computational models and algorithms for comprehending, manipulating, and generating human language. Natural language processing encompasses the utilisation of computational techniques to examine, represent, and imitate different facets of language, such as syntax, semantics, pragmatics, and discourse. Computational linguistics is essential for enhancing our comprehension of language and developing useful applications related to human-computer interaction, language translation, information retrieval, and other domains. Professionals in this field frequently work together with specialists in linguistics, computer science, cognitive science, and related fields to tackle the intricate difficulties linked to the understanding and processing of natural language by machines.<br><br>Computational linguistics not only facilitates the development of practical applications but also improves our comprehension of language by tackling the numerous challenges and complexities inherent in the field of natural language processing. The difficulties encompass resolving ambiguity, managing linguistic variations and dialects, ensuring interpretation is context-sensitive, and incorporating domain-specific expertise into language processing systems. In addition, computational linguistics undergoes constant development to accommodate the ever-changing characteristics of language. This is achieved by integrating knowledge from cognitive science, corpus linguistics, and machine learning into language processing algorithms to improve their efficacy and flexibility. In light of the increasing need for intelligent language technologies, computational linguistics continues to be a leading area of study and advancement, influencing the development of artificial intelligence and enabling more intricate dialogues between humans and machines.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt">w</font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt">ord representation, static embeddings, contextual embeddings</font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./algorithmisation.html">Algorithmisation</a>, <a href="./cognition-cognitive-linguistics.html">Cognition/Cognitive Linguistics</a>, <a href="./data-dataset.html">Data/Dataset</a>, <a href="./infographics-data-visualisation.html">Infographics/Data Visualisation</a>, <a href="./semantics.html">Semantics</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Grishman, R. (1986). Computational linguistics: An introduction. Cambridge University Press.‏<br>Bender, E. M., &amp; Langendoen, D. T. (2010). Computational linguistics in support of linguistic theory. Linguistic Issues in Language Technology, 3.‏<br>Manning, C. D. (2015). Computational linguistics and deep learning. Computational Linguistics, 41(4), 701-707.‏</font></p>
</body>