<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Disinformation"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Disinformation</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Dren Gërguri</b>, <i>University of Prishtina, Kosovo</i><br><a href="mailto:dren.gerguri@uni-pr.edu" target="blank">dren.gerguri@uni-pr.edu</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Disinformation refers to the spread of fabricated or misleading information that poses a serious concern in the digital age where content can be disseminated quickly and widely. It is a form of information disorder that refers to the intentional spread of fabricated or misleading information to influence and shape people’s perceptions and viewpoints. Disinformation can take various forms, including false articles, manipulated images or videos, misleading narratives, and deceptive social media campaigns. It tends to accomplish particular objectives, such as influencing public opinion, eroding institutional confidence, or even causing strife within society. The deliberate dissemination of false or misleading information has the potential to skew public perceptions of events, problems, and people in the digital age, as information is shared quickly through a variety of online platforms. Disinformation operations deliberately aim to sway the beliefs of their target audiences, frequently for ideological, social, economic or political reasons. This information manipulation can distort reality and cause people to establish beliefs based on false premises. The ease of creating or modifying information is increased by digital technology. Text-generating models and deepfakes are two examples of AI-generated content that might further blur the distinction between truth and falsity. It takes a team effort to combat disinformation in opinion formation, including critical thinking techniques, media literacy, and steps to assure the validity and dependability of information sources. As the landscape evolves, efforts to address disinformation must also consider the role of AI and explore technological solutions that can enhance the resilience of societies against the manipulative impact of AI-driven disinformation. Moreover, collaborative efforts among different actors, such as educators, platforms, professional organisations, and civil society are crucial to building societal resilience.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt">d</font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt">isinformation, <a href="./manipulation.html">manipulation</a>, ai</font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./algorithmisation.html">Algorithmisation</a>, <a href="./fake-news-misinformation.html">Fake News/Misinformation</a>, <a href="./epistemic-community.html">Epistemic Community</a>, <a href="./sourcing.html">Sourcing</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Buckner, C. (2023). From deep learning to rational machines: What the history of philosophy can teach us about the future of artificial intelligence. Oxford University Press.<br>Gërguri, D. (2023). Information disorder in the digital age. Dukagjini.<br>Hobbs, R. (2017). Teaching and learning in a post-truth world. Educational Leadership, 75(3), 26–31.<br>Paris, B., &amp; Donovan, J. (2019). Deepfakes and cheap fakes. Data &amp; Society Research Institute. <a href="https://datasociety.net/library/deepfakes-and-cheap-fakes/" target="_blank">https://datasociety.net/library/deepfakes-and-cheap-fakes/</a><br>Potter, J. (2021). Media literacy (10th ed.). SAGE.</font></p>
</body>