<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Emotion Display Norms in Politics"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Emotion Display Norms in Politics</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Gabriella Szabó</b>, <i>HUN REN Centre for Social Sciences, Hungary</i><br><a href="mailto:szabo.gabriella@tk.hu" target="blank">szabo.gabriella@tk.hu</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br><br><br>Emotion display norms are the socially acceptable ways that members of a particular culture or society express their emotions and control them when voicing their opinions. Expectations about the appropriateness and intensity of emotional displays vary among cultures; for example, some value restraint, while others promote openness. Additionally, context affects how acceptable it is to express emotions. In contrast to casual settings with friends or family, formal events such as public gatherings or workplaces usually require more controlled displays. Through their interactions with family, peers, and larger cultural influences, people internalise emotional display norms, learning early on what is considered rewarding and socially acceptable. Political groups may have different standards for displaying emotions. Conservatives may differ from what is considered an appropriate emotional opinion expression in progressive circles. Politicians need to be mindful of these differences because public opinion is frequently influenced by emotional authenticity. Voters connect with genuine emotion, but displays that are viewed as fake might be harmful for the candidate’s credibility. Strategic emotional expressions are frequent in political communication, especially during public speeches and debates. Political leaders are under pressure to show compassion, sorrow, or thankfulness during emergencies or trying times. On the other hand, underexpressing emotions can be perceived as cold, while overexpressing them can give the impression that one lacks self-control. Adherence to emotion norms is made more difficult by gender stereotypes. While men might be perceived as weak for displaying vulnerability, women may find it difficult to overcome stereotypes that characterise them as being too emotional or lacking in authority. Effective communication requires navigating the conventions surrounding the display of emotions. Politicians frequently work with communication specialists to adjust their tactics to changing public expectations while striking a balance between cultural norms and authenticity.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">e</span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">motions, norms, gender</span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./affect-affective-foundation-of-opinion.html">Affect/Affective Foundation of Opinion</a>, <a href="./emotion-display-norms-in-politics.html">Emotion Display Norms in Politics</a>, <a href="./emotions.html">Emotions</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Ahmed, S. (2013). The cultural politics of emotion. Routledge.<br>Hochschild, A. R. (1983). The managed heart: Commercialisation of human feeling. University of California Press.<br>Karl, K. L., &amp; Cormack, L. (2023). Big boys don’t cry: Evaluations of politicians across issue, gender, and emotion. Political Behavior, 45(2), 719–740 <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s11109-021-09727-5" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1007/s11109-021-09727-5</a></font></p>
</body>