<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Identity"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Identity</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Gal Harpaz</b>, <i>The Open University of Israel</i><br><a href="mailto:doctorharpaz@gmail.com" target="blank">doctorharpaz@gmail.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Identity provides a sense of continuity within the self and in interaction with others (self-sameness), as well as a frame to differentiate between self and others (uniqueness) which allows the individual to function autonomously from others. A latest definition by the American Psychological Association defines Identity as an individual’s sense of self that is structured by (a) a set of physical, psychological, and interpersonal characteristics that is not wholly shared with any other person and (b) a range of affiliations (e.g., ethnicity) and social roles. Social identity theory proposed that identity is constructed by distinction between personal Identity and social identity, which together make up the complete identity of the individual. Another key theory that emphasises the connection between identity and the social surrounding is The Communication Theory of Identity. The researchers explain that identity is multi-layered and situated in communication. According to the theory, identity includes four different frames: personal (i.e., how people see themselves), enacted (i.e., how identity is expressed in interactions), relational (i.e., relational roles), and communal (i.e., group memberships). Layers can overlap and also contradict, creating identity gaps. Above and beyond the emphases of different theories, Identity involves a sense of continuity, or the feeling that one is the same person today that one was yesterday or last year (despite physical or other changes). Such a sense is derived from one’s body sensations; one’s body image; and the feeling that one’s memories, goals, values, expectations, and beliefs belong to the self. Both personal and social identity plays a key role in shaping and expressing opinions. Groups to which individuals belong and members of socially defined identity groups have both conscious and unconscious influence on shaping an individual’s opinions.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">s</span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">ocial identity theory, communication theory of identity, social identity</span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./ideology.html">Ideology</a>, <a href="./publics-mainstream-publics-counter-publics.html">Publics/Mainstream Publics/Counter-Publics</a>, <a href="./face.html">Face</a>, <a href="./perspective.html">Perspective</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>American Psychological Association. (2018). APA style. <a href="https://dictionary.apa.org/identity" target="_blank">https://dictionary.apa.org/identity</a><br>Erikson EH. (1968). Identity, youth and crisis. W. W. Norton &amp; Company, Inc.<br>Tajfel, H., Turner, J. C., Austin, W. G., &amp; Worchel, S. (1979). An integrative theory of intergroup conflict. Organisational identity: A reader, 56(65), 4-16.‏<br>Shin, Y., &amp; Hecht, M. L. (2017). Communication theory of identity. The International Encyclopedia of Intercultural Communication, 1-9.‏ <a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118783665.ieicc0008" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118783665.ieicc0008</a></font></p>
</body>