<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Implicit"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Implicit</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Anna Bączkowska</b>, <i>University of Gdansk, Poland</i><br><a href="mailto:anna.baczkowska@ug.edu.pl" target="blank">anna.baczkowska@ug.edu.pl</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Implicit language is non-literal, usually based on presupposition and/or implicature, and is cancellable. By cancellability we mean the option of withdrawing from what the speaker has said without negative consequences. The fact that one can deny what s/he said is particularly important in offensive language, and especially in the case of irony. In order to avoid being judged for criticising and/or ridiculing the receiver in case the latter reacts stronger to the offensive language than expected, the speaker can renounce his/her negative intentions as the way s/he expressed thoughts were not straightforward and left some room for doubt whether the speaker actually meant what s/he said or not. Traditionally, implicitness encompasses figurative language, such as: metaphors, similes, understatements, overstatements, irony. They stem from Grice’s typology of implicitness that comprises: irony, metaphor, hyperbole, and meiosis. Sometimes non-figurative language, which however is not fully literal such as rhetorical questions, are also included in implicitness, in particular examples of the Searlian indirect speech act (such as Can you pass me the salt wherein a question is in fact a request).  <br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">n</span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">on-literalness, cancellability</span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./implicitness.html">Implicitness</a>, <a href="./implicit-bias.html">Implicit Bias</a>, <a href="./explicit-explicitness.html">Explicit/Explicitness</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Bączkowska, A. (2023). Implicit offensiveness from linguistic and computational perspectives: A study of irony and sarcasm. Lodz Papers in Pragmatics, 19(2), 353-383. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1515/lpp-2023-0018" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1515/lpp-2023-0018</a><br>Bączkowska, A., Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk, B., Žitnik, S., Liebeskind, C., Trojszczak, M., &amp; Valunaite<br>Oleskeviciene, G. (2024). Implicit offensive language taxonomy. Lodz Papers in Pragmatics, 20(2), 463-483. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1515/lpp-2024-0049" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1515/lpp-2024-0049</a><br>Grice, H. P. (1989). Logic and conversation. In Herbert Paul Grice studies in the way of words (pp. 22–40). Harvard University Press.<br>Searle, J. R. (1979). Expression and meaning: Studies in the theory of speech acts. Cambridge University Press. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511609213" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511609213</a></font></p>
</body>