<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Incivility (1)"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Incivility (1)</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Barbara Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk</b>, <i>University of Applied Sciences in Konin, Poland</i><br><a href="mailto:barbara.lewandowska-tomaszczyk@konin.edu.pl" target="blank">barbara.lewandowska-tomaszczyk@konin.edu.pl</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>A distinction made by Andresson and Pearson (452) between incivility and impoliteness (see Impoliteness) is often dubbed as a distinction between ‘deep’ and ‘surface’ civility, with politeness and good manners being the superficial/surface behavioural manifestations, while deep or genuine civility refers to acting with others in mind. As proposed in Calhoun (253), civility refers to kindness, respect, tolerance, and consideration of feelings of others, while incivility encompasses a wide range of actions, from minor rudeness to more serious disrespect. Essentially, it is about a lack of regard for others and a violation of norms of respectful conduct. As suggested by Sifianou , such an understanding of the distinction is reminiscent of Goffman’s (55) distinction between ceremonial (etiquette) and substantive (morality and ethics) rules of conduct.  <br><br>Incivility is a broader concept than impoliteness, as it extends to behaviors that can have more significant and lasting negative consequences, particularly in public or professional spheres. One can argue that incivility goes beyond mere rudeness to threaten democratic discourse, undermine collective well-being, or violate fundamental principles of a civil society. Incivility is often seen as having a clearer intent to harm or disrupt. It can be characterised by a dismissive, aggressive, or hostile tone that goes beyond simply lacking good manners. Incivility is frequently discussed in broader contexts like workplace dynamics, political discourse, or online communication, where its impact can affect larger groups or societal functions. It is also argued by Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk that negative emotions underlying incivility function as a stronger driving force than positive emotionality towards a unity of group identification.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">e</span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span lang="hu-hu">thics, etiquette, <a href="./impoliteness.html">impoliteness</a>, incivility, morality</span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./expressive-language-emotional-function-of-language.html">Expressive Language/Emotional Function of Language</a>, <a href="./explicit-explicitness.html">Explicit/Explicitness</a>, <a href="./hate-speech.html">Hate Speech</a>, <a href="./incivility-(2)insults.html">Incivility (2)Insults</a>, <a href="./impoliteness.html">Impoliteness</a>, <a href="./slurs.html">Slurs</a>, <a href="./stereotype-(1).html">Stereotype (1)</a>, <a href="./vulgarism.html">Vulgarism</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Andersson, Lynne M., &amp; Pearson, Ch. M., (1999). Tit for tat? The spiraling effect of incivility in the workplace. The Academy of Management Review, 24(3), 452-471.<br>Calhoun, Cheshire, (2000). The virtue of civility. Philosophy &amp; Public Affairs, 29(3), 251-275.<br>Goffman, E., (1967). Interaction ritual. Essays on face-to-face behavior. Anchor Books.<br>Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk, B. (2017). Incivility and aggression as driving forces in group emergence in online conflict discourses. Lodz Papers in Pragmatics, 13(2), 347–367.<br>Sifianou, M., (2019) Im/politeness and in/civility: A neglected relationship? Journal of Pragmatics, 147, 49-64.</font></p>
</body>