<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Individualisation"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Individualisation</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Carlos Cunha</b>, <i>Iscte - University Institute of Lisbon, Portugal</i><br><a href="mailto:cunhacdowling@yahoo.com" target="blank">cunhacdowling@yahoo.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Artur Lipiński</b>, <i>Adam Mickiewicz University Poznań, Poland</i><br><a href="mailto:artur.lipinski@amu.edu.pl" target="blank">artur.lipinski@amu.edu.pl</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Individualisation is one of the types of representation of social actors proposed by van Leeuwen. It occurs when the social actor is represented individually by name, specific features, personal characteristics, etc. Typically, it is a discursive device which allows creation of a sense of proximity/closeness which might contribute to the positive feelings of humanisation, empathy, or sympathy. It is the process of creating something different to fit the desires of a specific individual, location, etc.<br><br>From a linguistics perspective it may include individual linguistic variation regarding the unique way language is used; language acquisition and individual differences in the way some people attain language skills more easily or faster than others; lexical individualisation on the way speakers construct new terms or phrases such as slang or even academic terms to express themselves; pragmatic individualisation on contextual adaptation such as the communicative setting; or the impact of the individual on language evolution.<br><br>The concept is also used in other disciplines such as business where it focuses on tailoring services or products to specific needs. Socially, it involves one’s responsibility for their life.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="hu-hu">s</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="hu-hu">ocial actors, individuals, language</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./belief.html">Belief</a>, <a href="./culture.html">Culture</a>, <a href="./identity.html">Identity</a>, <a href="./worldview.html">Worldview</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Degen, J.L., Kleeberg-Niepage, A., &amp; Bal, P.M. (2022). Lost in context? Critical perspectives on individualisation. Hu Arenas. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s42087-022-00295-6" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1007/s42087-022-00295-6</a><br>Elias, N. (2001). The society of individualisation. Continuum.<br>Machin, D., &amp; Mayr, A. (2023). How to do critical discourse analysis: A multimodal introduction (Second edition). SAGE.<br>Statham, S. (2022). Critical discourse analysis: A practical introduction to power in language. Routledge.<br>Van Leeuwen, T. (2008). Discourse and practice: New tools for critical discourse analysis. Oxford University Press.</font></p>
</body>