<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Intention"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Intention</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Erika Lombart</b>, <i>Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium</i><br><a href="mailto:erika.lombart@uclouvain.be" target="blank">erika.lombart@uclouvain.be</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>The concept of intention is present in the work of many pioneering pragmatic researchers. Grice’s Cooperative principle states that interlocutors who intend to carry out an exchange should adhere to the maxims of conversation. (1) The maxim of quality requires stating only what is believed to be true. Intention is central here, as speakers are expected to have the intention of being honest and to avoid saying anything they know to be false or for which they lack sufficient evidence. (2) The maxim of quantity requires that we give neither too much nor too little information. This maxim is guided by the speaker’s intention to be adequately informative, providing enough details for understanding without overwhelming the listener with unnecessary information. (3) The maxim of relation requires that an utterance must be relevant. This reflects the speaker’s intention to deliberately choose information that directly connects to the topic of conversation, ensuring that their contribution is purposeful and meaningful to the ongoing exchange. Finally, (4) the maxim of manner requires that an utterances should be as clear as possible. The speaker's intention is to communicate in a way that minimises ambiguity, confusion, or unnecessary complexity, allowing the listener to easily grasp the intended meaning.  <br><br>Intention is also a key aspect of Speech Act theories, as developed by Austin and later elaborated by Searle, which view communication as a form of action performed in the world with a specific intention (see Speech Act). As Nunberg notes, correctly understanding the speaker’s intention is crucial for correct referring and interpretation.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="hu-hu">m</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="hu-hu">axims of conversation, meaning, speech act</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./speech-act-speech-event.html">Speech Act/Speech Event</a>, <a href="./manipulation.html">Manipulation</a>, <a href="./interpretation.html">Interpretation</a>, <a href="./face.html">Face</a>, <a href="./persuasion.html">Persuasion</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Austin, J. L. (1962). How to do things with words. Harvard University Press.<br>Grice, H. P. (1975). Logic and conversation. In P. Cole &amp; J. Morgan (Eds.), Speech Acts (Vol. 3, p. 41&#8209;58).<br>Nunberg, G. D., (1978). The Pragmatics of Reference. Indiana University Linguistics Club.<br>Searle, J. R., (1969). Speech acts: An essay in the philosophy of language. Cambridge University Press.</font></p>
</body>