<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Journalistic Interventionism"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Journalistic Interventionism</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Janet Adikpo</b>, <i>Şira Group Limited, Istanbul, Turkiye</i><br><a href="mailto:jar.adikpo@gmail.com" target="blank">jar.adikpo@gmail.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Journalistic Interventionism is the active engagement of journalists in shaping public opinion, influencing policy, and steering socio-political discourse. It is commonly expressed through three core functions: setting the political agenda, influencing public perception, and advocating social change. In setting the political agenda, journalists frame and emphasise specific themes to guide public and political attention. To shape public opinion, they often use human interest or conflict-oriented frames, influencing how audiences interpret events. Additionally, journalists promote social change by spotlighting key issues, leveraging editorial tools such as headline selection and story placement. Accordingly, emotional framing (such as the use of evocative language or personal stories) is used to elicit empathy and mobilise public sentiment. In some cases, journalists align with advocacy networks or organisations to broaden the reach and impact of their message. Journalistic interventionism approach enhances journalism’s transformative potential and also raises ethical concerns. For example, presenting information in alignment with a particular viewpoint blurs the line between reporting and advocacy. This persistent coverage of certain topics can create a sense of urgency and call to action, but it challenges traditional norms of objectivity. Thus, journalistic interventionism reflects a complex and evolving role of media in society, one that must balance influence with responsibility.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-us">m</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-us">edia advocacy, political agenda setting, opinion framing, public opinion influence </span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./public-opinion.html">Public Opinion</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Castelló, E., &amp; Montagut, M. (2011). Journalists, reframing and party public relations consultants: Strategies in morning talk radio. Journalism Studies, 12(4), 506-521. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/1461670X.2010.530969" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1080/1461670X.2010.530969</a><br>Davis, A. (2007). Investigating journalist influences on political issue agendas at Westminster. Political Communication, 24(2), 181-199. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/10584600701313033" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1080/10584600701313033</a><br>Hanitzsch, T., Hanusch, F., &amp; Lauerer, C. (2016). Setting the agenda, influencing public opinion, and advocating for social change: Determinants of journalistic interventionism in 21 countries. Journalism Studies, 17(1), 1-20. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/1461670X.2014.959815" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1080/1461670X.2014.959815</a><br>Márquez-Ramírez, M., Mellado, C., Humanes, M. L., Amado, A., Beck, D., Davydov, S., Mick, J., Mothes, C., Olivera, D., Panagiotu, N., Roses, S., Silke, H., Sparks, C., Stępińska, A., Szabó, G., Tandoc Jr., E., &amp; Wang, H. (2020). Detached or interventionist? Comparing the performance of watchdog journalism in transitional, advanced and non-democratic countries. The International Journal of Press/Politics, 25(1), 53-75. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1177/1940161219872155" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1177/1940161219872155</a></font></p>
</body>