<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Opinion"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Opinion</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Carlos Cunha</b>, <i>Iscte - University Institute of Lisbon, Portugal</i><br><a href="mailto:cunhacdowling@yahoo.com" target="blank">cunhacdowling@yahoo.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Opinion is a viewpoint, thought(s), or attitude formed in the mind about a particular issue, but it may not be based on fact or knowledge. Once it is expressed in some manner and shared with others, it has moved beyond mere thinking. These numerous ideas (as well as opinion expression, holders, types) reflect the diversity of human thought and intellectual inquiry. In considering opinions, one should be mindful of potential subjectivity, non-factual nature, variability, and expressiveness.<br><br>Various academic disciplines use opinion in their studies, including Medical Ethics, Law, Education, Environmental Studies, Literature and Cultural Studies, History, Philosophy, Media and Communication Studies, Economics, Sociology, Psychology, and Political Science. Philosophy, for example, tends to offer views on ideals, knowledge, being, logic, and cognisance. Political Science focuses on political structures, beliefs, authority, power, control, fairness, and the state. Sociology emphasises society, organisations, relationships, inequity, civilisation, and identity, among other issues. Psychology examines comportment, awareness, and human advancement. Economics considers models, marketplaces, state involvement, and disparity. History digs into occurrences, actions, and progress over time. Literature and Cultural Studies look at textual representation as well as impact on social attitudes. Media and Communication Studies analyse public discourse and accounts. While law unearths interpretation and application of rulings and decrees. Concerns surrounding opinion include confirmation bias, subjectivity, and diverging perspectives.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">d</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">isciplines, viewpoint, subjective</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./subjectivity.html">Subjectivity</a>, <a href="./opinion-expression.html">Opinion Expression</a>, <a href="./bias.html">Bias</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Fishbein, M., &amp; Ajzen, I. (1972). Attitudes and opinions. Annual Review of Psychology 23(1), 487-544. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.ps.23.020172.002415" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.ps.23.020172.002415</a><br>Gerard, H. &amp; Orive, R. (1987). The dynamics of opinion formation. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.), Advances in experimental social psychology, Vol. 20 (pp. 171-202). Elsevier.</font></p>
</body>