<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Opinion Holder"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Opinion Holder</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Anita Ciunova-Shuleska</b>, <i>Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, North Macedonia</i><br><a href="mailto:anita@eccf.ukim.edu.mk" target="blank">anita@eccf.ukim.edu.mk</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Nikolina Palamidovska-Sterjadovska</b>, <i>Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, North Macedonia</i><br><a href="mailto:nikolina@eccf.ukim.edu.mk" target="blank">nikolina@eccf.ukim.edu.mk</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>An opinion holder is an entity that holds an opinion about a specific topic, subject, or situation (opinion object). An opinion holder can be a person, organisation, country, or some other specific group of people expressing an opinion. The opinion could be expressed implicitly or explicitly, and when expressed explicitly, opinion holders of the propositional opinions are usually observed as agents of those opinions. Opinion holders are also called opinion sources; and they are usually explicitly mentioned in news, articles, or other formal documents; but in user-generated content such as posts, blogs, or reviews, they are the authors whose true identities may be unknown. Regarding how often opinion holders communicate about a specific topic, we can differentiate ‘inactive’ as those who do not seek out or receive advice from others on a specific topic; ‘followers’ as those whom opinion leaders influence; ‘opinion leaders’ who lead the formation of attitudes, public knowledge, and opinions; and ‘mediatized opinion leaders’, individuals who considerably use media for communicative exchange and information. In addition, regarding the level of opinion leadership and knowledge about a specific topic, four types of opinion holders are identified: ‘informed opinion leaders’ (both high opinion leadership and knowledge), ‘uniformed opinion leaders’ (average knowledge but high level of opinion leadership), ‘silent experts’ (high knowledge and low opinion leadership) and ‘other’ persons that possess little knowledge and leadership about a specific topic. In this line, it is valuable to mention the term ‘opinionators’ referring to individuals whose profession revolves around creating, disseminating, and interpreting ideas, values, and opinions in society, such as academics, journalists, artists, community activists, etc.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">o</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">pinion holder, opinionators, types of opinion holders</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./opinion-object.html">Opinion Object</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Kim, S. M., &amp; Hovy, E. (2006). Extracting opinions, opinion holders, and topics expressed in online news media text. Proceedings of the Workshop on Sentiment and Subjectivity in Text (pp. 1-8). <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.5555/1654641.1654642" target="_blank">https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.5555/1654641.1654642</a><br>Saunders, P. (2006). The rise of the opinionators. Policy, 22(2), 3-13. <a href="https://search.informit.org/doi/10.3316/aeipt.164933" target="_blank">https://search.informit.org/doi/10.3316/aeipt.164933</a><br>Schäfer, M. S., &amp; Taddicken, M. (2015). Mediatized opinion leaders: New patterns of opinion leadership in new media environments? International Journal of Communication, 9, 960-981. <a href="https://doi.org/10.5167/uzh-114938" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.5167/uzh-114938</a><br>Seth, A., &amp; Seth, K. (2019). Fundamentals of opinion mining. In R. Agrawal &amp; N. Gupta (Eds.), Extracting knowledge from opinion mining (pp. 1-19). IGI Global. <a href="https://doi.org/10.4018/978-1-5225-6117-0.ch001" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.4018/978-1-5225-6117-0.ch001</a><br>Trepte, S., &amp; Scherer, H. (2010). Opinion leaders - Do they know more than others about their area of interest? Communications, 35(2), 119-140. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1515/comm.2010.007" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1515/comm.2010.007</a></font></p>
</body>