<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Perspective"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Perspective</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Elena Negrea-Busuioc</b>, <i>National University of Political Studies and Public Administration, Romania</i><br><a href="mailto:elena.negrea@comunicare.ro" target="blank">elena.negrea@comunicare.ro</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>The term ‘perspective’, often used interchangeably with ‘viewpoint’, is a fundamental concept in linguistics and discourse studies. It refers to the position or angle from which an individual perceives, interprets, and communicates about objects, people, or events. This concept is closely related to the notion of ‘vantage point’, which specifies the exact viewpoint from which information is conveyed. For cognitive linguists and discourse scholars, understanding vantage points is essential for exploring how language constructs meaning and shapes communication by influencing how information is presented and framed.<br><br>Perspective can be established through various linguistic mechanisms, including direct quotations and verbs of utterance and cognition, as in the following examples: ‘John said: ‘The world is going to end’’, or ‘Mary believes that the world will be fine’. Perspectivisation attributes responsibility for information to a subject – typically the speaker, though not exclusively. This process expresses subjectivity in language and discourse, alongside subjectification. While subjectification connects information to the subject of discourse, perspectivisation links the information to a subject within the discourse itself.<br><br>Another important dimension is perspective-taking, which refers to the cognitive ability to understand and interpret situations from another person’s viewpoint. This skill is crucial for effective communication, as it enables individuals to appreciate how others perceive their environment and intentions. By aligning understandings through perspective-taking, speakers and listeners can engage in more meaningful and cooperative interactions, fostering empathy and reducing misunderstandings.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">p</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">erspective, perspectivisation, viewpoint</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./identity.html">Identity</a>, <a href="./subjectivity.html">Subjectivity</a>, <a href="./epistemic-community.html">Epistemic Community</a>, <a href="./frames.html">Frames</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Graumann, C. F., &amp; Kallmeyer, W. (2002). Perspective and perspectivation in discourse: An introduction. In C. F. Graumann, &amp; W. Kallmeyer (Eds.), Perspective and perspectivation in discourse (pp. 1-11). John Benjamins Publishing Company.<br>Sanders, J., &amp; Spooren, W. (1997). Perspective, subjectivity, and modality from a cognitive linguistic point of view. In W. A. Liebert, L. R. Waugh, &amp; G. Redeker (Eds.). Discourse and perspective in cognitive linguistics (pp. 85-114). John Benjamins Publishing Company.</font></p>
</body>