<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Politicisation"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Politicisation</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Erika Lombart</b>, <i>Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium</i><br><a href="mailto:erika.lombart@uclouvain.be" target="blank">erika.lombart@uclouvain.be</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Politicisation can be understood in two complementary ways: as the process by which an issue becomes the subject of political debate, or as the growing involvement of individuals or groups in political life. This notion is the subject of study among disciplines in the humanities and social sciences: for example, history, politics, or sociology. Carl Schmitt, a German political theorist with ties to Nazism, argued that politics concerns the distinction between friend and enemy. In contrast, Antonio Gramsci, an Italian Marxist theorist, posited that politics is a struggle for hegemony. The ruling class maintains its dominance by gaining the consent of subordinate classes, while politicisation refers to the process of challenging this hegemony by these subordinate classes. Max Weber, a German sociologist, stated that politicisation is the recognition that national politics affect individuals and localities as much, if not more, than local politics. Politicisation denotes the process by which individuals gain awareness of the relevance of nationwide politics.<br><br>The politicisation of issues can be analysed through various dimensions: cognitive (awareness of political issues), affective (emotional attachment to political entities), and behavioural (participation in political activities such as voting or protesting). Key actors include media organisations, civil society groups, political parties, and digital influencers. Objects of politicisation range from public policies and social issues, such as climate change and migration, to private life domains, such as gender identity. Indicators used in empirical research include survey data on political interest, media consumption, protest participation, and voting patterns. For instance, empirical studies have shown how social media platforms contribute to the politicisation of younger audiences by exposing them to contentious debates and activist content. Recent research also highlights varying degrees of politicisation in different European regions, depending on economic insecurity, institutional trust, and media ecosystems.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">d</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">igital political engagement, political awareness, social movement dynamics</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./affordances-affordance-theory.html">Affordances/Affordance Theory</a>, <a href="./opinion.html">Opinion</a>, <a href="./political-expression.html">Political Expression</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Cabo, M., &amp; Molina, F. (2008). The long and winding road of nationalisation: Eugen Weber’s Peasants into Frenchmen in modern European history (1976–2006). European History Quarterly, 39(2), 264-286.<br>Gramsci, A. (2002). Lettres de la prison: 1926–1937 (J. Noaro, Trans.). <a href="https://prison.eu.org/IMG/pdf/lettres_de_la_prison_1953.pdf" target="_blank">https://prison.eu.org/IMG/pdf/lettres_de_la_prison_1953.pdf</a><br>Kriesi, H. (2012). The political consequences of the economic crisis in Europe: Electoral punishment and popular protest. Swiss Political Science Review, 18(4), 518–522. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/spsr.12006" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1111/spsr.12006</a><br>Schmitt, C. (1988). Théologie politique: 1922–1969 (J.-L. Schlegel, Trans.). Éditions Gallimard.<br>Theocharis, Y., Lowe, W., van Deth, J. W., &amp; García-Albacete, G. (2015). Using Twitter to mobilize protest action: Online mobilisation patterns and action repertoires in the Occupy Wall Street, Indignados, and Aganaktismenoi movements. Information, Communication &amp; Society, 18(2), 202–220. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2014.948035" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2014.948035</a></font></p>
</body>