<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Polysemy"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Polysemy</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Ledia Kazazi</b>, <i>University of Elbasan &quot;Aleksandër Xhuvani&quot;, Albania</i><br><a href="mailto:ledia.kazazi@uniel.edu.al" target="blank">ledia.kazazi@uniel.edu.al</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Polysemy is a phenomenon whereby a single linguistic unit, most commonly a word, exhibits multiple distinct yet related meanings. For instance, the word body can refer to the human organism, a corpse, the trunk of a person, or the main part of an object or group, such as the body of a car or a governing body. While these meanings are distinct, they are cognitively and historically related, often extending from a central or prototypical sense through processes such as metaphor or metonymy.<br><br>Traditionally, the study of polysemy has belonged to lexical semantics, focusing on how word meanings develop and relate to each other. However, cognitive linguistics broadens this view, claiming that polysemy is not confined to the lexicon but is a fundamental characteristic of human language and cognition. According to this perspective, various ‘levels’ of language (for instance lexical, morphological, syntactic) are interrelated through polysemous structures.<br><br>Cognitive lexical semantics, a subfield of cognitive linguistics, investigates polysemy as a conceptual phenomenon. From this viewpoint, the multiple meanings of a word are not arbitrary or accidental, but reflect systematic patterns in mental representation. Polysemy is therefore understood to provide insights into how language users mentally structure and categorise experience.<br><br>Importantly, polysemy is distinguished from homonymy, where a single form has unrelated meanings (e.g. bat the animal vs. bat used in sports). In contrast, polysemous meanings are historically or conceptually connected. As such, the study of polysemy contributes to our understanding of meaning extension, semantic networks, and the embodied nature of language.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">c</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">ognition, word meaning, polysemous structures</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./cognition-cognitive-linguistics.html">Cognition/Cognitive Linguistics</a>, <a href="./ambiguity.html">Ambiguity</a>, <a href="./metaphor.html">Metaphor</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Cruse. A. (2004) Meaning in language: An introduction to semantics and pragmatics. Oxford University Press<br>Evans, V., &amp; Green, M. (2006) Cognitive linguistics: An introduction. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates/Edinburgh University Press.<br>Nerlich, B., Todd, Z., Herman, V., &amp; Clarke, D. D. (2003). Polysemy: Flexible patterns of meaning in mind and language, De Gruyter Mouton.</font></p>
</body>