<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Prejudice"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Prejudice</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Jana Rosenfeldová</b>, <i>Charles University, Czechia</i><br><a href="mailto:jana.rosenfeldova@fsv.cuni.cz" target="blank">jana.rosenfeldova@fsv.cuni.cz</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Lenka Vochocová</b>, <i>Charles University, Czechia</i><br><a href="mailto:lenka.vochocova@fsv.cuni.cz" target="blank">lenka.vochocova@fsv.cuni.cz</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Gal Harpaz</b>, <i>The Open University of Israel</i><br><a href="mailto:doctorharpaz@gmail.com" target="blank">doctorharpaz@gmail.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Prejudice is a preconceived and typically negative attitude toward a person or group, formed without direct experience or logical reasoning. It is often based on group membership – such as race, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. Prejudices can include an affective component (e.g., nervousness, pity, hatred) and a cognitive component (assumptions and beliefs about groups).  <br><br>Earlier research portrayed prejudice as the result of motivated and intentional processes. As overt forms of prejudice became socially unacceptable, researchers began to recognise that subtle behaviours might not reflect hidden negative intentions. Instead, they may result from unintentionally activated processes. This shift emphasised the role of cognitive processes and socialisation, acknowledging that prejudice often arises from everyday mental shortcuts and social influences.<br><br>Scholars also debate the scope of prejudice. Some advocate for a broad definition that encompasses any negative judgement based on group membership. Others argue against equating prejudice with any form of dislike or distrust. They point to research on prejudice since the mid-20th century, which has largely been motivated by efforts to understand and mitigate extreme expressions of unjustified group hatred.  <br><br>This debate also extends to the relationship between prejudice and ideology. Proponents of the ‘ideological symmetry thesis’ suggest that individuals at both ends of the ideological spectrum can be equally intolerant of social groups whose values and beliefs conflict with their own. Opponents of this thesis contend that the primary goal of prejudice research has been to explain and seek to reduce intergroup violence. They maintain that available evidence indicates that conservatives’ prejudice against minority groups constitutes a much more pressing social problem than liberals’ prejudice against majority groups. From this perspective, any serious analysis of prejudice should take into account its real-world impacts, such as hate crimes and violent discrimination.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">c</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">ognitive processes, social groups, ideology </span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./affect-affective-foundation-of-opinion.html">Affect/Affective Foundation of Opinion</a>, <a href="./attitude.html">Attitude</a>, <a href="./ideology.html">Ideology</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Allport, G. W., Clark, K., &amp; Pettigrew, T. (1954). The nature of prejudice. Addison-Wesley.<br>Badaan, V., &amp; Jost, J. T. (2020). Conceptual, empirical, and practical problems with the claim that intolerance, prejudice, and discrimination are equivalent on the political left and right. Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences, 34, 229–238. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.2020.07.007" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.2020.07.007</a><br>Brandt, M. J., Reyna, C., Chambers, J. R., Crawford, J. T., &amp; Wetherell, G. (2014). The ideological-conflict hypothesis. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 23(1), 27–34. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1177/0963721413510932" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1177/0963721413510932</a><br>Dovidio, J. F. (2001). On the nature of contemporary prejudice: The third wave. Journal of Social Issues, 57(4), 829–849. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/0022-4537.00244" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1111/0022-4537.00244</a><br>Forscher, P. S., Cox, W. T. L., Graetz, N., &amp; Devine, P. G. (2015). The motivation to express prejudice. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 109(5), 791–812. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1037/pspi0000030" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1037/pspi0000030</a></font></p>
</body>