<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Sourcing"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Sourcing</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Marc Jungblut</b>, <i>Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich, Germany</i><br><a href="mailto:marc.jungblut@ifkw.lmu.de" target="blank">marc.jungblut@ifkw.lmu.de</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>Sourcing describes one out of a range of potential foundations of an opinion, alongside others such as evidence or the epistemic quality of the belief. An opinion based on sourcing reflects a belief about an object, person, or event that is linked to a specific external point of reference (source). Sources can function as origins (where an opinion comes from) and as warrants (why an opinion is considered justified), depending on how they are invoked in a discourse. Sources can also take various forms, ranging from eye-witness accounts to expert statements, documents, or databases. Providing sources for an opinion is typically associated with increased validity of connected statements about a part of reality and may, therefore, enhance the persuasiveness of a factual statement. Different types of sources are oftentimes ascribed different levels of credibility or trustworthiness, which, in turn, also increase the persuasiveness of the connected statement.<br><br>Research that focuses on opinion discourses often revolves around the question of what sources are provided to back up seemingly factual statements. Journalism research, for instance, is concerned with what sources journalists use to report on on-going events or issues and how journalists transform available source material into news articles. Similarly, scholars have also focused on how opinions in online discourses are backed up by different forms of sources and how the usage of sources with a different credibility shapes the persuasiveness of these statements. A central concern in this is the increasing usage of manufactured or artificially modified source material, for instance, in the form of so-called deep fakes.<br><br>Research focused on opinion formation processes often explores how various forms of sources can impact the opinion formation and information processing of individuals. In this context, credibility and trustworthiness have been identified as key determinants influencing opinions based on sourcing.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">s</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">ourcing, opinion-formation, foundedness</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./belief.html">Belief</a>, <a href="./public-opinion.html">Public Opinion</a>, <a href="./private-public.html">Private/Public</a>, <a href="./sources-of-opinion.html">Sources of Opinion</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Bakker, T., Trilling, D., De Vreese, C., Helfer, L., &amp; Schönbach, K. (2013). The context of content: the impact of source and setting on the credibility of news. Recherches en communication, 40, 151-168.<br>Hovland, C. I., &amp; Weiss, W. (1951). The influence of source credibility on communication effectiveness. Public Opinion Quarterly, 15(4), 635–650.<br>Tenenboim-Weinblatt, K., &amp; Baden, C. (2018). Journalistic transformation: How source texts are turned into news stories. Journalism, 19(4), 481-499.<br>Zhang, X., &amp; Li, W. (2020). From social media with news: Journalists’ social media use for sourcing and verification. Journalism Practice, 14(10), 1193-1210.</font></p>
</body>