<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title="Stereotype (1)"></head>
<body><p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="3"><b>Stereotype (1)</b></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Gal Harpaz</b>, <i>The Open University of Israel</i><br><a href="mailto:doctorharpaz@gmail.com" target="blank">doctorharpaz@gmail.com</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><br><br><br>The concept of stereotypes was introduced in a social context by Walter Lippmann, he described them as Images that form in people's minds. Stereotypes are simplified, rigid, and often distorted mental images people hold about social groups. Contemporary definitions emphasize that stereotypes encompass beliefs and opinions regarding the traits, attributes, and behaviors associated with members of various social groups. They are understood as cognitive generalisations—mental shortcuts that include expectations and assumptions about a particular group or category. Stereotypes are conceptualised as a specific type of social concept, functioning similarly to other cognitive categories. Stereotypes are not merely individual biases but are shaped and reinforced through social interactions and cultural norms. This perspective highlights the role of societal structures in the formation and maintenance of stereotypes. Moreover, stereotypes serve as tools for social orientation, helping individuals navigate complex social environments by providing simplified representations of groups providing quick cognitive shortcuts. However, such simplifications can lead to misunderstandings and perpetuate social inequalities, bias, and misjudgement, especially when these representations fail to reflect individual variation.<br><br>Functionally, stereotypes resemble schemas in that they serve to streamline and expedite the processes of perception and judgement. Yet, their utility comes at a cost. Stereotypes are often exaggerated, skewed toward negativity, and remarkably resistant to change, even when individuals encounter people who contradict these generalised expectations.<br><br>The connection between stereotypes and opinions is significant: stereotypes form the cognitive basis for attitudes, shaping the emotional and evaluative responses people have toward outgroup members. As such, stereotypes do not exist in isolation but play a central role in the formation of prejudice and intergroup bias, influencing social behavior in subtle and persistent ways.<br><br><br><br></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Keywords</b>: </span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">b</span></span></font></font></span></font><font color="#000000"><span style="text-decoration: none"><font face="calibri, sans-serif"><font size="2" style="font-size: 10pt"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt"><span lang="en-gb">ias, cognitive shortcuts, social groups, schemas</span></span></font></font></span></font></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>Related Entries</b>: <a href="./belief.html">Belief</a>, <a href="./bias.html">Bias</a>, <a href="./judgement-(1).html">Judgement (1)</a>, <a href="./judgement-(2).html">Judgement (2)</a>, <a href="./schema.html">Schema</a>, <a href="./stereotype-(2).html">Stereotype (2)</a></font></p>
<p><font face="Poppins, Calibri, sans-serif" size="2"><b>References</b>:<br>Bottom, W. P., &amp; Kong, D. T. (2012). “The casual cruelty of our prejudices”: On Walter Lippmann’s theory of stereotype and its “obliteration” in psychology and social science. Journal of the History of the Behavioral Sciences, 48(4), 363–394. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/jhbs.21565" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1002/jhbs.21565</a><br>Cauthen, N. R., Robinson, I. E., &amp; Krauss, H. H. (1971). Stereotypes: A review of the literature 1926–1968. The Journal of Social Psychology, 84(1), 103–125. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/00224545.1971.9918526" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1080/00224545.1971.9918526</a><br>Hilton, J. L., &amp; Von Hippel, W. (1996). Stereotypes. Annual Review of Psychology, 47(1), 237–271. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.psych.47.1.237" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.psych.47.1.237</a><br>Lippmann, W. (1922). Public opinion. Free Press.<br>Rhodes, M., &amp; Baron, A. (2019). The development of social categorisation. Annual Review of Developmental Psychology, 1, 359–386. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-devpsych-121318-084824" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-devpsych-121318-084824</a></font></p>
</body>